100 Adjectives Every Turkish Beginner Must-Know
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7zE39cLB3Ko
canlı - alive - what Jan li(cks) Micheal, he feels alive
sinirli - angry - a sinner li(cks) someone when they are angry
kaygılı - anxious - flying a kite when saying goodbye(gule gule) makes me anxious
kötü - bad - it is bad to cut you
güzel - beautiful - The guzel is a beautiful animal
en iyi - best - if you are in good, you are the best
büyük - big
acı - bitter - you eat something spicy and you say want to say you need a juice, all you can say is "a ji--!"
sıkıcı - boring - you are bored so you are start skinning injins, ski ji
parlak - bright - the parlor is locked, but it is bright inside
yoğun - busy - when you are really busy you yawn alot
sakin - calm - They keep the baby calm by putting a sock in it's mouth
ucuz - cheap - ew, jews are so cheap
temiz - clean - tell me the court is clean enough for tenis
bulutlu - cloudy - it is cloudy, BUT we can still LOOT LOU
soğuk - cold - it is cold because I am soaked
serin - cool - A serene, cool, chilly night
sevimli - cute - same root of sevmek, to like/love. "eemly" is adjective sounding
koyu - dark - you run into dark and say "I'm cool, you?"
lezzetli - delicious - Liz eats Lee and says he is delicious
farklı - different - a farklı is a little different from a forklift
zor - difficult - ZORo does difficult things
kirli - dirty - You cure lee from being dirty. Dirty curly hair.
iğrenç - disgusting - You rent a high tech "e-ranch", but it is disgusting
memnuniyetsiz - dissatisfied - you say you are glad to meet someone, yet (your) sis is better so you are dissatisfied
erken - early - our ken is always early
kolay - easy - my job is easy, it's cool I just lie here
utanmiş - embarrassed - You console an embarrassed lady and tell her "you tan miss"
heyecanlı - excited - You are excited and say "Hey John look!"
heyecan verici - exciting - You are in an exciting situation and you say "Hey John, (this is) very G"
pahalı - expensive - Pa hallers because something is so expensive
ünlü - famous - Lou can't undo being famous
uzak - far - oo, zach is so far away
yabancı - foreign - They tell the foreign person, "ya banned ji(ew)". Or you bungee jump when you are a foreigner
bedava - free - the bed have a free pillow with it
tok - full - you are so full you can't talk
komik - funny - the comic is funny
iyi - good
harika - great - It's great when you find gold so you say "harika" (yurika!)
mutlu - happy - you are happy because someone muted lou
sert - hard - You in(sert) the hard thing in
ağır - heavy - "ah er" is like a grunt sound you make picking up something heavy. air is really heavy.
yüksek - high - There is a Uke sec(t) of tall people on a high building
sıcak - hot - you see Jack is hot because he jumped over a candle stick
nemli - humid - there is a word to describe when there is moisture in the air, namely "humid"
aç - hungry - the tree(ağaç) is so hungry it says its name in a hurry
önemli - important - oh, humid(nemli) weather is very important for some plants
akıllı - intelligent - a killer must be very intelligent
ilginç - interesting - it would be very interesting if it turned out the grinch was ill, ilginç
nazik - kind - one kind nazi eeked thru 
büyük - large
geç - late - "getchur stuff, we're late"
hafıf - light - you only get half if you are a light person
hayat dolu - lively - The high hat do Lou when he is lively
uzun - long - you zoon a long time before you realise you should be on zoom
yüksek sesli - loud - high(yüksek) sound(ses)li
düşük - low - they shook the tree and it made all the fruit fall low to the ground
evli - married - mixed up evil(evli) people get married, it has that 'li' adjective ending
kaba - mean - A mean person gives a baby a cutting baba
dar - narrow - the narrow passage was so dark you couldn't see the last letter in dar(k)
yakın - near - it is good to keep ya kin near you
kaygılı - nervous - Kaius is nervous about getting gills
yeni - new - ya nee(d) new stuff all the time
iyi - nice - it is good to be nice
eski - old - A really old man says he wants to "eh.. ski"
ağrılı - painful - painful things are a le(sson)
fakir - poor - Someone is so poor they let someone fuck (their) ear
sessiz - quiet - sound + -siz(without/less suffix)
yağmurlu - rainy - ya murder someone in the rain(yağmur) + -lu(adjective ending). Do you drink wine when its rainy? "Ya, merlot"
rahatlatıcı - relaxing - someone tells me specifically that wearing a raw hat and singling will relax me, "raw hat la tj"
zengin - rich - those rich people, zey gain lots of stuff. 
doğru - right(correct) - Whichever door you pick will be the right one. Also means straight, as in straight ahead
üzgün - sad - The leaders of goons are asking each other whose goon is the sad one
tuzlu - salty - In you twos, you love salt(tuz) + -lu(adjective ending)
aynı - same - as you are dying you say "I ne--" to be the same as living people, but you die before finishing the word 'need'
memnun - satisfied - like in memnun odlum(pleased to meet you)
korkunç - scary - it would be scary if pick up an apple and the core crunches in the middle of it
ciddi - serious - Dee got a sex change, you accidently start to call her by her old name, Jim, but then you correct yourself Ji-Dee and everyone acts like this is a seriosu offense
kısa - short - you kiss a short person
utangaç - shy - it is similar to embarrassed(utanmiş), but with a "go w(atch)" like you are encouraging a shy person to go watch something
tek - single - tech people like to work alone. if you are the sole person here, nobody can take you.
küçük - small - the cool chick is really small
yumuşak - your cow(moo) is shocked to discover it is the softest cow in the world
ekşi - sour - "ek!" she says, "this is so sour!"
özel - special - a special person is like a beautiful person without the need for the extra g(lamour)
acı - spicy - you eat something spicy and you say want to say you need a juice, all you can say is "a ji--!"
güçlü - strong - A really strong guy wearing gucci and louis vuitton. If gucci and louis vuitton combined, they would be the strongest fashion company in the world!
güneşli - sunny -  day = gün, güneş = sun, -li = adjective suffix
emin - sure - "hey man, I'm sure saying amen is appropriate"
tatlı - sweet - the toddler is very sweet
uzun - tall - it is too soon for you to be so tall so they get rid of your t. Also same word as long.
susamış - thirsty - Sammy Sosa misses the ball because he is so thirsty
yorgun - tired - someone says they're tired, so you tell them "You're goon"
doğru - true(correct) - Whichever door you pick will be the right/true one. Also means straight, as in straight ahead
çirkin - ugly - you cheer for ken because he has finally come out as being ugly
sıcacık - warm - similar to hot(sıcak), but with an extra 'ca' in the middle
zayıf - weak - The german says "you vill zie if you are weak"
genış - wide - Ganesh is the widest god
rüzgarlı - windy - the plot to take the girl in a dress out on a windy day is the "ruse garli(slightly altered code word for girl)
yanlıs - wrong - someone is telling you something that is wrong and so yawn(ing feels de)lic(ious) to show them you know they are wrong
genç - young - being late(geç) and young is very similar, you are late to existing if you are young