Ağaçta çok meyve varmış. - It seems there is a lot fruit on the tree.
Garajda araba yokmuş. - (I think that) there is not a car in the garage.
"varmış" It seems there is - "yokmuş" It seems there is not"
Mavi olanı lütfen. - The blue one, please.
Hangi tişörtü istiyorsunuz? - Which tee‑shirt do you want?
Hangi ayakkabıları istiyorsunuz? - Which shoes do you want?
Siyah olanları(nı) lütfen. - The black ones, please.
Siz evde yokken çiçeğiniz susuz kalmasın - While you are not at home do not let your flowers remain water-less.
Kedim var. - I have a cat
Köpeğin var. - you have a dog
Arabası var. - He/she has a car, He's got a cat.
Evimiz var. - We have a house
Bahçeniz var. - You have a garden
Şişeleri var. - They have a bottle
Kedim yok. - I do not have a cat
Köpeğin yok. - You do not have a dog
Arabası yok. - He/she doesn't have a car
Evimiz yok. - We do not have a house
Bahçeniz yok. - You do not have a garden
var mı? - Is there? Are there?
Kedisi var mı? - Has he/she got a cat?
Evimiz yok mu? - Haven't we got a house?
Eviniz yok mu? - Haven't you got a house?
Evleri yok mu? - Haven't they got a house?
var mı? - is there?, are there?
Köpeğin var mı? - Have you a dog?, Have you got a dog?, Do you have a dog?
Kedim var mı? - Do I have a cat?, Have I got a cat?
Arabası var mı? - Has he/she a car? Has he/she got a car?
Evimiz var mı? - Have we a house? Have we got a house?
Bahçeniz var mı? - Have you a garden? Have you got a garden?
Şişeleri var mı? - Have they a bottle? Have they got a bottle?
Kedim yok mu? - Have I not got a cat? Do I not have a cat?
Köpeğin yok mu? - Do you not have a dog? Have you not got a dog?
Arabası yok mu? - Doesn't he/she have a car? Has he/she not got a car?
Evimiz yok mu? - Have we not a house? Have we not got a house?
Bahçeniz yok mu? - Do you not have a garden? Have you not got a garden?
Şişeleri yok mu? - Do they not have a bottle? Have they not got a bottle?
Yeni bir araban var mı? - Have you got a new car?
Boş vaktimiz var mı? - Have we got time to spare?
Orhan'ın yeni arabası varmış. - It seems that Orhan has/had a new car.
Cevabı yok. - He/she hasn't got the answer.
Cevabı yoksa. - If he/she hasn't got the answer.
Elmaları yokmuş. - It seems that they haven't got any apples.
Elmaları yok mu? - Haven't they got any apples?
Sadece az param var. - I've only a little money.
Ali 'nin parası var mı? - Has Ali got any money?
Yeterli param varsa, yeni araba alırım. - If I have enough money, I'll buy a new car.
Ama o kadar yokmuş gibi geliyor. - But it seems that like I have not got that much money
varım - I am there/I'll be there
yokum - I am not there/I'll not be there
varsın - You are there/You will be there
yoksun - You are not there/You will not be there
var - He/She/It is there He/She/It will be there
yok - He/She/It is not there He/She/It will not be there
varız - We are there/We will be there
yokuz - We are not there/We will not be there
varsınız - You are there/You will be there
yoksunuz - You are not there/You will not be there
varlar - They are there/They will not be there
yoklar - They are not there/They will not be there
Varsa and Yoksa - "If I'm there/If I'm not there"
varsam - If I am there/I'll be there
yoksam - I am not there/If I'll not be there
varsan - If you are there/If you'll be there
yoksan - If you are not there/If you will not be there
varsa - If he is there am there/If he'll be be there
yoksa - If he is not there/If he will not be there
varsak - If we are there/If we'll be there
yoksak - If we are not there/If we will not be there
varsanız - If you are there/If you'll be there
yoksanız - If you are not there/If you will not be there
varsalar - If they are there/If they will be there
yoksalar - If they are not there/If they will not be there
olsaydım - If I'd been there
olmasaydım - If I'd not been there
olsaydın - If you had been there
olmasaydın - If you not been there
olsaydı - If he had been there
olmasaydı - If he had not been there
olsaydık - If we had been there
olmasaydık - If we had not been there
olsaydınız - If you had been there
olmasaydınız - If you had not been there
olsaydılar - If they had been there
olmasaydılar - If they had not been there
varmışım - possibly I am/was there/I'll be there
yokmuşum - possibly I am/was not there/I'll not be there
varmışsın - possibly you are/were there/you'll be there
yokmuşsun - possibly you are/were not there/you'll not be there
varmış - possibly he is/was there/he'll be there
yokmuş - possibly he is/was not there/he'll not be there
varmışız - possibly we are/were there/we'll be there
yokmuşuz - possibly we are/were not there/we'll not be there
varmışsınız - possibly you are/were not there/you'll not be there
yokmuşsunuz - possibly you are/were not there/you'll not be there
varmışlar - possibly they are/were there/they'll be there
yokmuşlar - possibly they are/were not there/they'll not be there
Yarın ofiste yokum. - I will not be at the office tomorrow.
Yarın ofiste yokmuşum. - I will probably not be at the office tomorrow.
Evde var mısın? - Are you at home?
Vaktin varsa, sonra görüşelim - Let us meet later on, if you have time
Saat onda ofiste yokmuşsun - It seems you were not at the office at 10 o'clock
Varsa yoksa annesi - to be very keen on his mother 
varsa yoksa bilgisayar - to be very keen on her computer
Kimse var mı? - Is anybody there?
Kimse(cik) yokmuş. - It seems there is nobody (here).
Kimse(cik) yok. - There is nobody (here).
Yalnız mıyız? - Are we alone?
Hayır. Onlar da var. - No, there's them as well.
Gelecek toplantıda ben de varım. - I'll be at the next meeting as well.
yok yok - expression that means everything exists
pazarda yok yoktu. - expression that means there were plenty of things at the market
gelmemek - to not come
vermek - to give
vermemek - not to give
bilmek - to know
bilmemek - not to know
görmek - to see
görmemek - not to see
gülmek - to laugh
gülmemek - not to laugh
yapmak - to do, make, perform
yapmamak - not to do
ağrımak - to ache
ağrımamak - not to ache
kopmak - to snap
kopmamak - not to snap
kurumak - to dry
yazmaya başladı - she started writing.
Bir mektup yazmaya başladı. - She started writing a letter.
Bir mektup yazmaya başladı. - She started to write a letter.
kurumamak - not to dry
Geçen hafta ödevimi yapmayı unuttum. - I forgot to do my homework last week.
Garajdan arabamı almayı unuttum. - I forgot to pick up my car from the garage
Ali, sana söylemeyi unuttu. - Ali forgot to tell you.
Affedersin, seni aramayı unuttuk. - We're sorry, we forgot to call you.
Filmi izlemeyi unuttum. - I forgot to watch the film.
Kediyi beslemeyi unuttum. - I forgot to feed the cat.
Mehmet'i sormayı unuttunuz - You forgot to ask Mehmet.
Kapıyı kapamayı unuttum. - I forgot to close the door.
Pencereyi açmayı unuttular. - They forgot to open the window.
Tam saat sekizde yüzmeye başlayacağız. - We well start to swim right on eight o’clock.
Yazmak istiyorum - I want to write.
İçmek istiyorlar. - They want to drink.
Kalmak istemedin. - you didn't want to stay.
Çalışmak istemeyecekler. - They will not want to work.
Kalmamanızı istiyoruz. - We want you not to stay.
Kalmanızı istemiyoruz. - We do not want you to stay.
Kalmasını istemiyorlar. - They don't want him to stay.
Kalmamalarını istemiyorum. - I don't want them not to stay.
Gelmeye çalıştı. - He tried [to] to come.
Yüzmeyi severim. - I like to swim.
Onu yapmaktayım. - I am just doing it.
Sigara içmeyi bıraktım. - I have given up smoking.
gelmeye - to come dative object
gelmeyi - to come object
gelmekte - in coming
gelmekten - from coming
gelmekle - by/with coming
gelmemek - not to come
gelmemeye - to not to come dative object
gelmemeyi - not to come object
gelmemekte - in not coming
gelmemekten - from not coming
gelmemekle - by/with not coming
Kesmekten bıraktı. - He stopped cutting.
Sürmeyi öğreniyorum. - I am learning to drive.
Gülmemeye çalışıyorlar. - They are trying not to laugh.
gitmem - my going
gitmen - your going
gitmemiz - our going
gitmeniz - your going
gitmeleri - their going
gitmemek - not to go
gitmemem - my not going
gitmemen - your not going
gitmememiz - our not going
gitmemeniz - your not going
gitmemeleri - their not going
gidebilmek - to be able to go
gidebilmem - my being able to go
gidebilmen - your being able to go
gidebilmesi - his being able to go
gidebilmemiz - our being able to go
gidebilmeniz - my being able to go
gidebilmeleri - your being able to go
Gitmesini bekledim. -  expected him to go.
Gidebilmesini bekledim. - I expected him to be able to go.
gidememek - to not be able to go
gidememem - y not being able to go
gidememen - your not being able to go
gidememesi - his not being able to go
gidemememiz - our not being able to go
gidememeniz - your not being able to go
gidememeleri - their not being able to go
Mehmet'in gelememesini bildim. - I knew that Mehmet could not come.
Onların gelememelerini bilmiyordum. - I did not know that they could not come.
Kalmanızı istiyorum. - I want you to stay.
Kalabilmenizi istiyorum. - I want you to be able to stay.
Kalmamanızı istiyoruz - We want you not to stay.
Kalmanızı istemiyoruz. - We do not want you to stay.
Kalmamanızı istemiyoruz. - We do not want you not to stay.
Kalmasını istemiyorlar. - They don't want him to stay.
Kalmamalarını istemiyorum. - I don't want them not to stay.
Bana görmemezlikten geldi. - He pretended to not see me.
Onu görmemezlikten geliyorsunuz. - You are pretending not to see it.
Ayşe hanımı sevmemezlikten gelir misiniz? - Are you pretending not to like Miss Ayşe?
görmemezlikten gelmek - pretend not to see
Mehmet, bahçedemiş. - Mehmet was in the garden.
Tembel hiç değil imişsiniz. - It seems that you are not lazy after all.
büyüktür - it is large
büyüktü - it was large
büyükmüş - it was large indefinite past
gençtirler - they are young
gençtik - we were young
gençmişiz - we were young indefinite past
yavaşsın - you were slow
çabuktun - you were quick
çabukmuşsun - you were quick indefinite past
sabah - it is morning
sabahtı - it was morning
sabahmış - it was morning indefinite past
bir mektup - it is a letter
bir mektuptu - it was a letter
bir mektupmuş - it was a letter indefinite past
Mehmet'tir - It is Mehmet
Mehmet'ti - It was Mehmet
Mehmet'miş - It was Mehmet indefinite past
bir sepet - it is a basket
bir sepetti - it was a basket
bir sepetmiş - it was a basket indefinite past
bir virüs - it is a virus
bir virüstü - it was a virus
bir virüsmüş - it was a virus indefinite past
felaket - it is a disaster
felaketti - it was a disaster
felaketmiş - it was a disaster indefinite past
polis - they are policemen
polistiler - they were policemen
polismişler - they were policemen indefinite past
Mehmet'tir - It is Mehmet
İstanbul'da - In Istanbul
Hükümet'ten  -From the Government
zengin - rich
zenginim - I am rich
zengindim - I was rich
yorgun - tired
yorgunum - I am tired
yorgundun - you were tired
pahalı - dear, expensive
pahalı - it is dear
pahalıydı - it was dear
küçük - small
küçük - it is small
küçüktü - it was small
hasta - ill
hastayız - we are ill
hastaydık - we were ill
yaşlı - aged/old
yaşlısın - you are old
yaşlıydı - he was old
yoksul - poor
yoksullar - they are poor
yoksullar - they were poor
genç - young
gençler - they are young
gençti - he was young
zengin miyim? - am I rich?
yorgun musun? - are you tired?
pahalı mı? - is it dear?
büyük mü? - is it big?
hasta mıyız? - are we ill?
yaşlı mısınız? - are you old?
gençler mi? - are they young?
yoksullar mı? - are they poor?
