Geliyordum - I was coming
Gelirdim - I used to come
Gelecektim - I was going to come, I would have come
Gelmiştim - I had come
Gelmeliydim - I had to come
Gelseydim - If only I had come
anlamak - to understand
anladım - I understood
anladın - you understood
(o) anladı - he understood
anladık - we understood
anladınız - you understood
anladılar - they understood
çıkmak - to go out exit
çıktım - I went out
çıktın - you went out
(o) çıktı - he went out
çıktık - we went out
çıktınız - you went out
çıktılar - they went out
koşmak - to run
koştum - I ran
koştun - you ran
(o) koştu - he ran
koştuk - we ran
koştunuz - you ran
koştular - they ran
bulmak - to find
buldum - I found
buldun - you found
(o) buldu - he found
bulduk - we found
buldunuz - you found
buldular - they found
geldim - I came
geldin - you came
(o) geldi - he came
geldik - we came
geldiniz - you came
geldiler - they came
içmek - to drink or smoke
içtim - I drank or smoked
içtin - you drank or smoked
(o) içti - he drank or smoked
içtik - we drank or smoked
içtiniz - you all drank or smoked
içtiler - they drank or smoked
görmek - to see
gördüm - I saw
gördün - you saw
(o) gördü - he saw
gördük - we saw
gördünüz - you saw
gördüler - they saw
gülmek - to laugh
güldüm - I laughed
güldün - you laughed
(o) güldü - he laughed
güldük - we laughed
güldünüz - you laughed
güldüler - they laughed
Gelmişim - It seems they say I came
Geliyormuşum - It seems (they say) I am coming
Gelecekmişim - It seems I would have come
Gelirmişim - It seems I come
Gelmeliymişim - They say I must come
Gelseymişim - If only I had come
anlamışım - I (apparently) have understood
anlamışsın - you (apparently) have understood
(o) anlamış - he must (apparently) understood
anlamışız - we must (apparently) understood
anlamışsınız - you (apparently) have understood
anlamışlar - they must (apparently) understood
çıkmak - to go out exit
çıkmışım - I (apparently) have gone out
çıkmışsın - you (apparently) have gone out
(o) çıkmış - he (apparently) have gone out
çıkmışız - we (apparently) have gone out
çıkmışsınız - you all (apparently) have gone out
çıkmışlar - they (apparently) have gone out
koşmuşum - I (apparently) have run
koşmuşsun - you (apparently) have run
(o) koşmuş - he (apparently) have run
koşmuşuz - we (apparently) have run
koşmuşsunuz - you (apparently) have run
koşmuşlar - they (apparently) have run
bulmuşum - I (apparently) have found
bulmuşsun - you (apparently) have found
(o) bulmuş - he (apparently) have found
bulmuşuz - we (apparently) have found
bulmuşsunuz - you all (apparently) have found
bulmuşlar - they (apparently) have found
gelmişim - I (must) have come
gelmişsin - you (must) have come
(o) gelmiş - he⁄she⁄it (must) have come
gelmişiz - we (must) have come
gelmişsiniz - you all (must) have come
gelmişler - they (must) have come
içmek - to drink smoke
içmişim - I (must) have drunk smoked
içmişsin - you (must) have drunk smoked
(o) içmiş - he (must) have drunk smoked
içmişiz - we (must) have drunk smoked
içmişsiniz - you (must) have drunk smoked
içmişler - they (must) have drunk smoked
görmek - to see
görmüşüm - I (must) have seen
görmüşsün - you (must) have seen
(o) görmüş - he (must) have seen
görmüşüz - we (must) have seen
görmüşsünüz - you (must) have seen
görmüşler - they (must) have seen
gülmek - to laugh
gülmüşüm - I (must have laughed
gülmüşsün - you (must) have laughed
(o) gülmüş - he must have laughed
gülmüşüz - we (must) have laughed
gülmüşsünüz - you all (must) have laughed
gülmüşler - they (must) have laughed
anlamadım - I didn't understand, I have not understood
anlamadın - you didn't understand, you have not understood
(o) anlamadı - he, she, it didn't understand, he has not understood
anlamadık - we didn't understand, we have not understood
anlamadınız - you didn't understand, you have not understood
anlamadılar - they don't understand, they have not understood
gitmedim - I didn't go, I have not gone
gitmedin - you didn't go, you have not gone
(o) gitmedi - he, she, it didn't go, he has not gone
gitmedik - we didn't go, we have not gone
gitmediniz - you all didn't go, you all have not gone
gitmediler - they don't go, they have not gone
anlamadım - I didn't understand, I have not understood
anlamadın - you didn't understand, you have not understood
(o) anlamadı - he, she, it didn't understand, he has not understood
anlamadık - we didn't understand, we have not understood
anlamadınız - you all didn't understand, you all have not understood
anlamadılar - they don't understand, they have not understood
gitmedim - I didn't go, I have not gone
gitmedin - you didn't go, you have not gone
(o) gitmedi - he, she, it didn't go, he has not gone
gitmedik - we didn't go, we have not gone
gitmediniz - you all didn't go, you all have not gone
gitmediler - they don't go, they have not gone
anlamamışım - I have not understood it seems
anlamamışın - you have not understood it seems
(o) anlamamış - he has not understood it seems
anlamamışız - we have not understood it seems
anlamamışsınız - you all have not understood it seems
anlamamışlar - they have not understood it seems
gitmemişim - I probably did not go
gitmemişsin - you probably did not go
(o) gitmemiş - he probably did not go
gitmemişiz - we probably did not go
gitmemişsiniz - you all probably did not go
gitmemişler - they probably did not go
geliyordum - I was coming
geliyordun - you were coming
(o) geliyordu - it was coming
geliyorduk - we were coming
geliyordunuz - you all were coming
geliyorlardı geliyordular - they were coming
gitmiyordum - I wasn't going
gitmiyordun - you weren't going
(o) gitmiyordu - it wasn't going
gitmiyorduk - we weren't going
gitmiyordunuz - you all weren't going
gitmiyorlardı gitmiyordular - they weren't going
Okula gittin mi? - Did you go to school?
Okula gitmeli miydin? -  Did you have to go to school?
Henüz Ayşe hanım ders çalıştı mı? - Has Miss Ayshe done her lesson yet?
Henüz Ayşe hanım ders çalışmadı mı? - Hasn't Miss Ayshe done her lesson yet?
Mehmet televizyon seyrediyor muydu? - Was Mehmet watching television?
Mehmet televizyonu seyrediyor muydu? - Was Mehmet watching THE television?
Kemal gazete okudu mu? - Did Kemal read a newspaper?
Kemal gazeteyi okudu mu? - Did Kemal read THE newspaper?
Kemal bu gazeteyi okudu mu? - Did Kemal read THIS newspaper?
Serhan içki içti mi? - Did Serhan drink alcohol?
Serhan içki içiyor muydu? - Was Serhan drinking alcohol?
Faruk Ankara'ya gitti mi? - Has Faruk gone Ankara?
Faruk Ankara'ya gidebildi mi? - Was Faruk able to go Ankara?
gelmiştim - I had come
unutmuştun - you had forgotten
yürümüştü - he had walked
bilmiştik - we had known
çıkmıştınız - you all had gone out
anlamıştılar - they had understood
çıkmışmışım - I think that I had gone out
çıkmışmışsın - Presumably you had left
çıkmışmış - He had left as far as I know
çıkmışmışız - I think that we had left
çıkmışmışsınız - They say that you all had gone out
çıkmışmışlar - It was pretty sure that they had left
Mehmet çıktı mı? - Has Mehmet gone out?
O çıktı. - He has gone out.
O çıkmış. - He has gone out i think.
Onu yapmış mıyım? - Have I done it? Did I do it? 
Onu yapmış mısın? - Have you done it? Did you do it?
Onu yapmış mı? - Has he done it? Did he do it?
Onu yapmış mıyız? - Have we done it? Did we do it?
Onu yapmış mısınız? - Have you all done it? Did you do it?
Onu yapmışlar mı? - Have they done it? Did they do it?
Onu yapmamış mıyım? - Haven't I done it? Didn't I do it?
Onu yapmamış mısın? - Haven't you done it? Didn't you do it?
Onu yapmamış mı? - Hasn't he done it? Didn't he do it?
Onu yapmamış mıyız? - Haven't we done it? Didn't we do it?
Onu yapmamış mısınız? - Haven't you done it? Didn't you do it?
Onu yapmamışlar mı? - Haven't they done it? Didn't they do it?
Çıkmış mi? - Has he (seemingly) left?
Gülmüşler mi? - Did they laugh?
Onu yapmamış mısınız? - Haven't you all done it?
Onu yapmamış mısınız? - You haven't (gone and) done it have you?
biliyormuşum - (it seems that) I was knowing
biliyormuşsun - (it seems that) you were knowing
(o) biliyormuş - (it seems that) she was knowing
biliyormuşuz - (it seems that) we were knowing
biliyormuşsunuz - (it seems that) you were knowing
biliyorlarmış biliyormuşlar - (it seems that) they were knowing
okumuyormuşum - (it seems that) I wasn't reading
okumuyormuşsun - (it seems that) you weren't reading
(o) okumuyormuş - (it seems that) she wasn't reading
okumuyormuşuz - (it seems that) we weren't reading
okumuyormuşsunuz - (it seems that) you weren't reading
okumuyorlarmış, okumuyormuşlar - (it seems that) they weren't reading
anlamıyormuşum - it seems that I was not understanding
anlamıyormuşsun - it seems that you were not understanding
anlamıyormuş - it seems that he was not understanding
anlamıyormuşuz - it seems that we were not understanding
anlamıyormuşsunuz - it seems that you were not understanding
anlamıyorlarmış anlamıyormışlar - it seems that they were not understanding
gitmiyormuşum - I do not think that I was going
gitmiyormuşsun - I do not think that you were going
gitmiyormuş - I am pretty sure that he is not going
gitmiyormuşuz - I think that we are not going
gitmiyormuşsunuz - I believe that you all are not going
gitmiyorlarmış gitmiyormışlar - apparently they are not going
almak - to take
aldı - he took
almış - probably he took almamak to not take
almadı - he did not take
almamış - he probably did not take
Temel İngiltere'ye gitmişti. - It seems Temel had gone to England.
Eğer erken kalkarsan, kahvaltıyı yapabilirsen. - If you get up early, you can make the breakfast.
Eğer erken kalkarsan, bizi beklersin. - If you get up early, wait for us.
Eğer sana yardım edebilirsem, memnun olacağım. - If I can help you, I will be happy.
Şayet çok antrenör edemezsen, asla koşu kazanmayacaksın. - If you do not train a lot, you will never win the race.
Şayet sigaradan vazgeçersen, daha sıhhatli kendi kendine hissedersin. - If you give cigarettes up you will feel healthier.
Erken kalksaydın, bizi bekleyecektin. - If you had got up early, you would have waited for us.
Kötü hava olmasaydı, çarsıya gidecektik. - If the weather had not been bad, we would have gone to the shops.
Bu lokantaya gelmeseydim, senle görüşemedim. - If I had not come to this cafe, I would not have met you.
O lokantaya gitseydim, senle görüşürdüm. - If I had gone to that cafe, I would have met you.
Paranız varsa bana verin. - If you have money give it to me.
Bir taksi yoksa burada kalalım. - If there isn't a taxi let's stay here.
yaparsam - if I do
giriyorsan - if you are entering
kesilecekse - if it will be cut, if it is to be cut
anlaşmasaydık - if we have not agreed
mutlu olmayacaksanız - if you will not be happy
gelebilecekseler - if they will be able to come
gelemezsem - If I cannot come
yazabilirsen - If you can write
gülse - If he laughs
içsek - If we drink
görebilirseniz - If you all can see
yapmalısalar - If must they do
gelsem - if I were to come
gelsen - if you were to come
gelse - if he were to come
gelsek - if we were to come
gelseniz - if you all were to come
gelseler - if they were to come
geliyorsam - if I am coming
geliyorsan - if you are coming
geliyorsa - if he is coming
geliyorsak - if we coming
geliyorsanız - if you all are coming
geliyorsalar - if they are coming
gelirsem - if I (usually) come
gelirsen - if you (usually) come
gelirse - if he (usually) comes
gelirsek - if we (usually) come
gelirseniz - if you all (usually) come
gelirseler - if they (usually) come
geleceksem - if I (will) come
geleceksen - if you (will) come
gelecekse - if he (will) come
geleceksek - if we (will) come
gelecekseniz - if you all (will) come
gelecekseler - if they (will) come
geldiysem - if I came
geldiysen - if you came
geldiyse - if he came
geldiysek - if we came
geldiyseniz - if you all came
geldiyseler - if they came
gelseydim - If only I had come
gelseydin - If only you had come
gelseydi - If only had come
gelseydik - If only we had come
gelseydiniz - If only you all had come
gelseydiler - If only they had come


gelmesem - if I were to not come
gelmesen - if you were to not come
gelmese - if he were to not comes
gelmesek - if we were not not come
gelmeseniz - if you all were to not come
gelmeseler - if they were to not come
gelmiyorsam - if I am not coming
gelmiyorsan - if you are not coming
gelmiyorsa - if he is not coming
gelmiyorsak - if we are not coming
gelmiyorsanız - if you all are not coming
gelmiyorsalar - if they are not coming
gelmezsem - if I (usually) do not come
gelmezsen - if you (usually) do not come
gelmezse - if he (usually) do not comes
gelmezsek - if we (usually) do not come
gelmezseniz - if you (usually) do not come
gelmezseler - if they (usually) do not come
gelmeyeceksem - if I (will) not come
gelmeyeceksen - if you (will) not come
gelmeyecekse - if he (will) not come
gelmeyeceksek - if we (will) not come
gelmeyecekseniz - if you (will) not come
gelmeyecekseler - if they (will) not come
gelmediysem - if I had not come
gelmediysen - if you had not come
gelmediyse - if he had not come
gelmediysek - if we had not come
gelmediyseniz - if you had not come
gelmediyseler - if they had not come
gelmeseydim - If only I had not come
gelmeseydin - If only you had not come
gelmeseydi - If only he had not come
gelmeseydik - If only we had not come
gelmeseydiniz - If only you not had come
gelmeseydiler - If only they had not come
Erken varırsanız, beklemelisiniz. - If you arrive early, you will have to wait.
Erken varırsanız, beklersiniz. - If you arrive early, you would have to wait.
Erken varsaydınız, bekleyecektiniz. - If you had arrived early, you would have had to wait.
Sana yardım edebilirlerse, yardım edecekler. - They will help you if they can.
Sana yardım etseler, yardım ederler. - They would help you if they could.
Sana yardım edebilseydiler, (yardım) ederlerdi. - They would have helped you if they could have.
Fazla içersen sarhoş olursun. - If you drink too much you get drunk.
Çok çalışmazsan, sınavı geçemeyeceksin - Unless you work hard you will not be able to pass your test.
Sigara içmeyi bırakırsan, daha uzun yaşarsın. - If you stop smoking you will live longer.
Yağmur yağmasaydı dışarı çıkacaktık. - We would have gone out if it had stopped raining.
Eğer buradan gitseydim sana yazardım. - If I had gone away, I would have written to you.
küçümsemek - to belittle [to consider as small]
kötümsemek - to disparage [to consider as bad]
benimsemek - to appropriate [to consider as personal]
çekimsemek - to refrain from [to consider as absent]
gereksemek - to consider as necessary 
hafifsemek - to take s.o lightly [to consider as light]
yakınsamak - to converge [to consider as nearing]
umursamak - to care [to have consideration]
çıkarsamak - to infer, to deduce [to consider as resulting in]
Gülümsüyorsam. - If I am smiling.
Onu gereksemiyorsak. - If we do not consider it necessary.
telefon etmek - to telephone
dans etmek - to dance
şikâyet etmek - to complain
tereddüt etmek - to hesitate
zannetmek ya da zan etmek - to suppose
sabretmek ya da sabir etmek - to be patient
affetmek ya da af etmek - to pardon
seyretmek ya da seyir etmek - to watch
kaybetmek ya da kayıp etmek - to lose
hissetmek ya da his etmek - to feel
teşekkür - a thanking
teşekkür etmek - to thank somebody
teşekkür ederim - (I) thank you
servis etmek - to serve
iyi etmek - To do well
iyi ettin! - you did well!
iyi etmedin! - you did not do well!
Beş üç daha sekiz eder. - 5 plus three makes 8
Bu masa yüz elli bin eder. - This table is worth 150,000.
Toplam yüz elli lira ediyor. - The total amounts to 150 lira.
af - pardon 
affetmek - to beg pardon
affedersiniz! - Pardon!
ret - a refusal 
reddetmek - to refuse
reddederim! - I refuse!
kastetmek - to intend, to mean
bahsetmek - to mention
terketmek (terk etmek) - to leave, to quit
yardım etmek - to help, to aid
kabul etmek - to accept
farketmek (fark etmek) - to notice, to realize
izole etmek - to isolate, to insulate
Şu fişi izole ettim. - I have isolated that plug.
download etmek - to download
Bunu da download edelim. - Let's download this as well.
farketmek [fark etmek] - to notice, to realize
O köşeyi farketmedim [fark etmedim] - I did not notice that corner.
Park etmek - to park a car
Arabayı tam buraya park etmiştim. - I had just parked my car right here.
Bu akşamki partiye geliyor musun? Evet geliyorum. - Are you coming to the party tonight? Yes I am.
ayıp - a shaming
ayıp etmek - to cause make a shame
Onun için Mehmet bana ayıp etti. - Because of it that Mehmet shamed me.
teslim - a delivering 
teslim etmek - to deliver
Mektubu teslim ettim. - I delivered the letter.
Koliyi teslim ettirdiniz. - You had the the parcel delivered.
tamir - a repairing 
tamir etmek - to repair
Onu tamir etsek. - If we repair it that.
Onu tamir edemem. - I can't repair it that.
kontrol - a checking
kontrol etmek - to check
Onu kontrol ettiler. - They checked it that.
Onu kontrol edebilir misiniz? - Would you check it that?
ret - a refusing 
reddetmek - to refuse
Onu reddedeceğiz. - We shall refuse it that
Onu reddedelim. - Let's refuse it that
takdir - an appreciation 
takdir etmek - to appreciate
Ahmet, onu takdir etti. - Ahmet appreciated it that.
Ali, onu takdir edememiş. - (Probably) Ali couldn't have appreciated it that.
teslim - a delivering,
teslim etmek - to deliver.
Ali, mektubu teslim etti. - Ali delivered the letter.
teslim edilmek - to be delivered
Dün teslim edildi. - It was delivered yesterday.
Mektup teslim edildi. - The letter has been delivered
tamir edilmek - to repair
O tamir edilecek - It will be repaired
O tamir edilemedi. - It could not have been repaired.
kontrol edilmek - to be checked
O kontrol edildi. - It has been checked.
Onu kontrol edilebilecek mi? - Can it be repaired?
ret - a refusing
reddedilmek - to be refused
Ben, reddedildim. - I was refused
O, reddedilince. - On it being refused
takdir - an appreciation
takdir edilmek - to be appreciated
Ahmet, takdir edildi. - Ahmet was appreciated
Ali, takdir edilecek . - Ali will be appreciated.
hazırım. - I am ready.
hazır olacağım. - I shall be ready.
zengin - rich
zenginsiniz - you are rich
zengin olsaydınız - If you had been rich.
yoksul - poor
O yoksul - he is poor
O yoksul olabilir. - He may be poor.
Pişman oldum - I regret I was sorry.
fena - bad ill
Fena oluyorum - I feel ill.
memnun - pleased happy
yapmak - to do as an action
Hatalar yaptım! - I made some mistakes!
gelmek - to come
Geri geldim. - I came back!
kalmak - to remain stay
Uyuyakaldım! - I kept on sleeping!
bulunmak - to be found to be
Kitap çekmecede bulunurmuş. - The book will probably be found in the drawer!
eylemek - to carry out 
Pes demek - to give in
Bir dur demek - to draw the line at
Ne demek? - what does it mean?
dilemek - to wish
Özür dilemek - to apologize
Başarı dilemek - to wish success to someone
Dilek dilemek - to make a wish
Başsağlığı dilemek - to sympathize
söylemek - to speak
Şarkı söylemek - to sing
Yalan söylemek. - to tell a lie,
Şaka söylemek - to make a joke
durmak - to stop to keep on doing
Bakadurmak - to keep on looking,
Çalışadurmak - to keep on tryıng
Yapıverdim onu! - I did it quickly!
yazmak - to write
Düşeyazdım. - I almost fell down.
yüzekalmak - to keep on swimming
Yüzekaldı - He kept on swimming
alakalmak -  to keep on taking
Alakalacağım. - I will keep on taking.
durakalmak - to keep on stopping
Durakalıyorsun - You keep on stopping
bekleyedurmak - to keep on waiting
Bekleyedurabilecek misiniz? - Will you be able to keep on waiting?
uyuyakalmak - to oversleep
Uyuyakaldım - I overlept.
kalakalmak - to stand aghast, to be astounded
Kalakaldım. - I was astounded.
donakalmak - to petrify
Donakaldım. - I was petrified, I was scared stiff
düşeyazmak - to almost fall down stumble
Düşeyazdım. - I almost fell down.
Koşuverin! - Hurry up and run!
İçkisini içiverdi. - He gulped his drink down,
Gelivereceğim. - I'll dash along and come,
gülüverin - Laugh!
bakıverin - Look!
tutuverin - Get hold!
alayım - let me buy take
bekleyeyim - let me wait.
bakmak becomes bakayım - let me look.
alalım - let us buy take
bekleyelim - let us wait.
görelim - let's see.
Bak - Look!
Gel - Come!
Bakma - Don't look!
Gelme - Don't come!
Bakın - Look!
Bakmayın - Don't look!
Gelin - Come!
Gelmeyin - Don't come!
bakmasın - (You) let him not look
girsin - (You) let him enter
girmesinler - (You) let them not enter
olsun - let it be
olmasın - let it not be
koşmak - to run
koşsun - let him run
koşmasın - let him not run
koşsunlar - let them run
koşmasınlar - let them not run
Hamam - Turkish Bath
Keseci gelsin. - I am ready for the masseur.
Keseci gelsin mi?. - Should the masseur come (now)?
Bu akşam televizyonu seyredelim. - Let's watch TV this evening
gel - Come!
Buraya gel! - Come here!
gelin - come! polite
Girin! - come in! polite
Durunuz - Stop, Halt! (on a "Stop" sign)
Onu yapınız - do that!
Partiye gelsin - Let him come to the party!
Mehmet, pikniğe arabayı sürsün. - Let Mehmet drive the car to the picnic.
gelsinler - let them come!
Kızlar dans etsinler. - Let the girls dance.
Gitmeyeyim! - Let me not go!
Saçımı kestireyim mi kestirmeyeyim mi? - Should I get my hair cut or not?
Gitmeyelim! - Let us not go!
Bugün yüzmeyelim. - Let's not go swimming today.
Gitme! Don't go!
Sakın ha, onu yapma! - (You) Careful, don't do that!
Girmeyin! - Don't come in! polite
Sakın ha, onu yapmayın! - Careful, don't do that! polite
Gitmeyiniz! - Don't Go!
Sigara İçmeyiniz - No Smoking! [on a public sign]
Gitmesin! - let him not go!
Mehmet, Ayşe'yi öpmesin! - Don't let Mehmet kiss Ayshe!
Gitmesinler! - Let them not go!
Çocuklar mesajımı görmesinler! - Don't let the children see my message!
görsün - let him see!
alın - Take!
bulsunlar - let them find!
bulmasınlar - let them not find!
onu yapmayın - Don't do it!
gülünüz - Laugh!
Geçmiş olsun! - May it pass (from you)! Get better soon!
Kolay gelsin! - May it come easy!, Take it easy!
Neden olmasın? - Why let it not be?
çarpmak - to bump, collide
Bir duvara çarptım. - I bumped a wall.
çarpışmak - to bump, collide with.
Bir arabayla çarpıştım. - I collided with a car.
giriş - an entrance
çıkış - an exit
öpüş - a kıss
ona vurdum. - I shot him.
vuruşmak - to hit cooperative verb
Birbirleriyle vuruştular. - They fought each other.
Mehmet kuşu vurdu. - Mehmet shot the bird [dead].
görmek - to see
Memet'i gördüm. - I saw Mehmet.
görüşmek - to see each other to meet
Mehmet ile görüşeceğim. - I'm going to meet Mehmet.
anlamak - to understand
Ali'yi anlıyoruz. - We understand Ali.
anlaşmak - to agree
Anlaşıyoruz, değil mi? - We agree, don't we?
Ali ile anlaşıyoruz. - We agree with Ali.
Birbirleriyle - with each other
anlaşmak - to agree
sevişmek - to make love
öpüşmek - to kiss
Çamaşırı yıkadım. - I washed the shirt.
soymak - to undress somebody
soyunmak - to undress oneself
acımak - to feel pain
acınmak - to feel pain in oneself, to grieve
acındırmak - to cause to grieve
acındırılmak - to be made to grieve
tanımak - to know
tanışmak - to know one another
tanıştırmak - to introduce
tanıştırılmak - to be introduced
yapmak - to do
yapıyorum - I am doing
yapılmak - to be done
yapılıyor - It is being done
yapabilmek - to be able do
yapabilirim - I can do
yapılabilmek - to be able to be done
yapılabilir - it can be done
yapmamak - to not do
yapmıyorum - I am not doing
yapılmamak - to not be done
yapılmıyor - it is not being done
yapılamamak - to not be able to be done
yapılamayacak - it will not be able to be done
yapabilmek - to be able to do
Onu yapabileceğiz - we will be able to do it
yaptırabilmek - to be able to get it done
Onu yaptırabileceğiz - we will be able to get it done
yaptırabilmek - to be able to have it done
Onu yaptırabileceğiz - we will be able to have get it done
yapmak - to do
yapılmak - to be done
bilmek - to know
bilinmek - to be known
kırmak - to break
kırılmak - to be broken
düzmek - to arrange
düzülmek - to be arranged
yapmamak - to not do
yapılmamak - to be not done
kesmemek - to not cut
kesilmemek - to be not cut
kırmamak - to not break
kırılmamak - to not be not broken
yapmak - to do
yapılmak - to be done
yaptırmak - to have something done
yaptırılmak - to be done
yapabilmek - to be able to do something
yapılabilmek - to be able to be done
yapmamak - to not do
yapılmamak - to not be done
yaptırmamak - to not have something done
yaptırılmamak - to be not done
yapamamak - to not be able to do something
yapılamamak - to not be able get something done
anlamak - to understand 
anlatmak - to explain Active Mood Causative
anlatılmak - to be understood
kırmak - to break
kırdırmak - to break something
kırılmak - to be broken
kırdırılmak - to be broken by somebody
bulmak - to find
buluşmak - to meet to find each other
buluşulmak - to be met to be found together
anlamak - to understand
anlaşmak - to agree to understand each other
anlaşılmak - to be agreed
çarpmak - to hit, collide
çarpışmak - to collide with something
çarpışılmak - to be in collision with something
delmek - to pierce
delinmek - to be pierced
bilmek - to know
bilinmek - to be known
almak - to take
alınmak - to be taken
bulmak - to find
bulunmak - to be found
beklemek - to wait to expect
beklenmek - to be waited for to be expected
kapamak - to close
kapanmak - to be closed
yemek - to eat
yenmek - to be eaten
Ali, pencereyi kapadı. - Ali closed the window.
Pencere kapandı. - The window was closed
Ali tarafından pencere kapandı. - The window was closed by Ali.
tarafından - by
ali tarafından - by ali
Hesap, benim tarafımdan ödenecek. - The bill will be paid by me.
Kitap, onların tarafından yazılacak. - The book will be written by them.
Top, Mustafa tarafından bulundu. - The ball was found by Mustapha.
Araba, Ali tarafından temizleniyor. - The car is being cleaned by Ali.
