
many people wants to be alone - many people want to be alone
so they are moving to live on their own - So/(Because of this), they are moving away to live on their own
For example, the people who is working can be tired after work and can feel exhausted to cook. - For example, the people who are working may be tired after work and might feel too exhausted to cook.
..so that they order fast food and they can lose their health.. - Because of this, they may order fast food and their health may suffer.
In the otherside, they can have peacefull area for themself - On the other hand, they can have a peaceful area for themself. On the other hand, they can have their own peaceful space.
meeting with people from different nationalities - meeting with people of different nationalities
..and facing with customs and food - ...and experiencing unfamiliar customs and foods/diets.
If your countries money's valuable less than the country where you move, you can have stuff shorter time in this country - If your country's money/currency is less valuable than the money/currency at the country you move to, you can have stuff in a shorter period/amount of time.
..which may help you to have better job - ...which may help you to find a better job. ...which may assist you in finding a better job.
cultural differences is a big problem - cultural differences are a big problem
they may not used to eat traditional foods - they may not be used to eating traditional foods
they may not learn the langugae in a short time, so that there may be a misunderstanding - Furthermore, they may not be able to learn the local language in a short period of time, which may cause misunderstandings and frustration. **so that usually has intention/desire. EX: We went to the store so that we would would have food for dinner. So that we wouldn't be late, we set an alarm. what you want here is 'so', 'as a result'. They may not learn the language in a short time, and as a result there may be misunderstandings.
another issue is that may be difference between idea of funs - Another issue is that there may be differences between ideas of fun/entertainment.
what i mean by this is that, people who move abroad can bored when they don't have fun - What i mean by this is that people who move abroad may be/get bored when they don't have fun
living abroad can be great experience and helps you to personal growth - living abroad can be a great experience and helps (with personal growth)/(you/one grow as a person)
for many people being single gives them peace or make them feel free - for many people being single gives them peace or makes them feel free
so you can improve your skills what you are interested in - So/Furthermore, you can improve your skills and focus on what you are interested in. (some people say not to use 'so' at the begining of a sentence, other people say if you do then it needs a comma after it)
Although being single gives you a lot of control of you life.. - Although being single gives you a lot of control over you life..
But, nonetheless, making a decision... - Nonetheless, making a decision... (You shouldn't start sentences with the word 'but')
...making a decision on your own, thinking only about you.. - ...making a decision on your own, thinking only about yourself..
...making a decision on your own, thinking only about yourself, not being responsible.. - ...making a decision on your own, thinking only about yourself, and not being..
not being responsibility of anyone - not being responsible for anyone
not being responsible for anyone make you feel comfortable and relax - not being responsible for anyone makes you feel comfortable and relaxed
after high school, student study hard.. - after high school, students study hard..
..study hard for the university exam to get into university which.. - ..study hard for the university exam to get into the university which..
for many young people it is a long process and exhausted - for many young people it is a long and exhausting process
although, it's a overwhelm situation to be in, it gives.. - although it is an overwhelming situation to be in, it gives..
..it gives passion and improve your knowledge of different majors. - it gives passion and improves their knowledge of different majors. (it sounds bad to switch from 3rd person 'students' earlier to 2nd person 'you', )
once you get into college which you want.. - once you get into the college which you want..
once you get into the college which you want, that time you are going be so proud of yourself.- once you get into the college which you want, at that time you are going to be so proud of yourself.
And, after that tiring and exciting process starts, you can make new friends.. - After that tiring and exciting process starts, you can make new friends..
..you can make new friends, new social area and most importantly.. - ..you can make new friends, discover a new social scene and most importantly..
you will feel as adult - you will feel like an adult
Point of my view university years.. - From my point of view, university years.. 
These days, many young people before their twenties wants to move away from their parents houses - These days, many young people, before their twenties, want to move away from their parents houses. (Better: These days, many young people want to move away from their parents houses before their twenties.)
because when you get ages.. - because when you get older..
it may annoys parents - it may annoy parents
..to try to control you and gives commands you to do. - ..to try to control you and give you commands of what to do.
if you didn't learn how to cook, you can order junk foods.. - if you didn't learn how to cook, you may order junk food..
so your health may suffer or if.. - so your health may suffer, or if..
or if you are not lazy to learn cooking.. - or if you are not too lazy to learn to cook..
call your mom or dad to get recipe - call your mom or dad to get recipes
having your own space gives you peace, help you to think clearly and you can do whatever you want - having your own space gives you peace, helps you to think clearly and you can do whatever you want.

It is becoming more and more common for parents let their kids to watch tv. - It is becoming more and more common for parents to let their kids watch TV.
It is becoming common for parents to let their kids watch tv to silence them - It is becoming common for parents to let their kids watch TV to keep them quiet. ('keep them quiet' sounds better because silence them' is used a lot to mean 'kill them', or do something really bad to keep them quiet)
For many children are happy with that situation.. - Many children are happy with that situation. (OR: For many children that is a happy situation - but this doesn't sound as good)
Especially, old people very dependent on their home town. - Old people are very/especially dependent on their home town.
They have a lot of stories to tell their grandchilds - They have a lot of stories to tell their grandchildren.
Although sometimes it may be boring to listen some adventures again and again.. - Although sometimes it may be boring to listen to adventures again and again..
Although sometimes it may be boring to listen some adventures again and again, nonetheless they won't give up telling their stories. - Although sometimes it may be boring to listen some adventures again and again, they won't give up telling their stories. Sometimes it may be boring to listen some adventures again and again, nonetheless, they won't give up telling their stories. (You can use although or nonetheless, not both of them)
They won't give up to tell stories - They won't give up on telling stories. (This sounds a little weird because 'give up' kind of indicates stopping something that is difficult to do. This sounds better to me: They won't stop telling stories.)
I believe they are not the only ones who like the place where they born and spend many childhood years there. - I believe they are not the only ones who like the place where they were born and where they spent their childhood.
People who are an adult and live far away.. - People who are adults and live far away.. (This is better: Adults who live far away..)
adults who live far away from their birthplace are always miss memories they have had there. - Adults who live far away from their birthplace always miss the times they had there.
Once, you decided to.. - Once you have decided to..
Once you have decided to get IELTS exam - Once you have decided to take the IELTS exam..
Once you have decided to take the IELTS exam, a long studying process starts for you. - Once you have decided to take the IELTS exam, a long studying process will start for you.
..until the day you will get the exam. - ..until the day you will take the exam.
Sometimes it may be exhausted.. - Sometimes it may be exhausting..
..and understand that is totoly worth. ..and understand that is totally worth it.
In my suggestion you should find some material about IELTS.. - It is my suggestion that you find some material about IELTS..(OR: It is my opinion that you should find some material about IELTS..)
It is my suggestion that you find some material about IELTS, listen Someone who already took the exam.. - It is my suggestion that you find some material about IELTS, and listen to someone who already took the exam..
That may gives you motivation. - That may give you motivation.