It is becoming more and more common for parents let their kids to watch tv. - It is becoming more and more common for parents to let their kids watch TV.
It is becoming common for parents to let their kids watch tv to silence them - It is becoming common for parents to let their kids watch TV to keep them quiet. ('keep them quiet' sounds better because silence them' is used a lot to mean 'kill them', or do something really bad to keep them quiet)
For many children are happy with that situation.. - Many children are happy with that situation. (OR: For many children that is a happy situation - but this doesn't sound as good)
Especially, old people very dependent on their home town. - Old people are very/especially dependent on their home town.
They have a lot of stories to tell their grandchilds - They have a lot of stories to tell their grandchildren.
Although sometimes it may be boring to listen some adventures again and again.. - Although sometimes it may be boring to listen to adventures again and again..
Although sometimes it may be boring to listen some adventures again and again, nonetheless they won't give up telling their stories. - Although sometimes it may be boring to listen some adventures again and again, they won't give up telling their stories. Sometimes it may be boring to listen some adventures again and again, nonetheless, they won't give up telling their stories. (You can use although or nonetheless, not both of them)
They won't give up to tell stories - They won't give up on telling stories. (This sounds a little weird because 'give up' kind of indicates stopping something that is difficult to do. This sounds better to me: They won't stop telling stories.)
I believe they are not the only ones who like the place where they born and spend many childhood years there. - I believe they are not the only ones who like the place where they were born and where they spent their childhood.
People who are an adult and live far away.. - People who are adults and live far away.. (This is better: Adults who live far away..)
adults who live far away from their birthplace are always miss memories they have had there. - Adults who live far away from their birthplace always miss the times they had there.
Once, you decided to.. - Once you have decided to..
Once you have decided to get IELTS exam - Once you have decided to take the IELTS exam..
Once you have decided to take the IELTS exam, a long studying process starts for you. - Once you have decided to take the IELTS exam, a long studying process will start for you.
..until the day you will get the exam. - ..until the day you will take the exam.
Sometimes it may be exhausted.. - Sometimes it may be exhausting..
..and understand that is totoly worth. ..and understand that is totally worth it.
In my suggestion you should find some material about IELTS.. - It is my suggestion that you find some material about IELTS..(OR: It is my opinion that you should find some material about IELTS..)
It is my suggestion that you find some material about IELTS, listen Someone who already took the exam.. - It is my suggestion that you find some material about IELTS, and listen to someone who already took the exam..
That may gives you motivation. - That may give you motivation.
