for many people being single gives them peace or make them feel free - for many people being single gives them peace or makes them feel free
so you can improve your skills what you are interested in - So/Furthermore, you can improve your skills and focus on what you are interested in. (some people say not to use 'so' at the begining of a sentence, other people say if you do then it needs a comma after it)
Although being single gives you a lot of control of you life.. - Although being single gives you a lot of control over you life..
But, nonetheless, making a decision... - Nonetheless, making a decision... (You shouldn't start sentences with the word 'but')
...making a decision on your own, thinking only about you.. - ...making a decision on your own, thinking only about yourself..
...making a decision on your own, thinking only about yourself, not being responsible.. - ...making a decision on your own, thinking only about yourself, and not being..
not being responsibility of anyone - not being responsible for anyone
not being responsible for anyone make you feel comfortable and relax - not being responsible for anyone makes you feel comfortable and relaxed
after high school, student study hard.. - after high school, students study hard..
..study hard for the university exam to get into university which.. - ..study hard for the university exam to get into the university which..
for many young people it is a long process and exhausted - for many young people it is a long and exhausting process
although, it's a overwhelm situation to be in, it gives.. - although it is an overwhelming situation to be in, it gives..
..it gives passion and improve your knowledge of different majors. - it gives passion and improves their knowledge of different majors. (it sounds bad to switch from 3rd person 'students' earlier to 2nd person 'you', )
once you get into college which you want.. - once you get into the college which you want..
once you get into the college which you want, that time you are going be so proud of yourself.- once you get into the college which you want, at that time you are going to be so proud of yourself.
And, after that tiring and exciting process starts, you can make new friends.. - After that tiring and exciting process starts, you can make new friends..
..you can make new friends, new social area and most importantly.. - ..you can make new friends, discover a new social scene and most importantly..
you will feel as adult - you will feel like an adult
Point of my view university years.. - From my point of view, university years.. 
These days, many young people before their twenties wants to move away from their parents houses - These days, many young people, before their twenties, want to move away from their parents houses. (Better: These days, many young people want to move away from their parents houses before their twenties.)
because when you get ages.. - because when you get older..
it may annoys parents - it may annoy parents
..to try to control you and gives commands you to do. - ..to try to control you and give you commands of what to do.
if you didn't learn how to cook, you can order junk foods.. - if you didn't learn how to cook, you may order junk food..
so your health may suffer or if.. - so your health may suffer, or if..
or if you are not lazy to learn cooking.. - or if you are not too lazy to learn to cook..
call your mom or dad to get recipe - call your mom or dad to get recipes
having your own space gives you peace, help you to think clearly and you can do whatever you want - having your own space gives you peace, helps you to think clearly and you can do whatever you want.
