How many pairs of wings do bees have? - Two
What is a doe? - A female deer
What is a baby sheep called? - A lamb
How many legs does an octopus have? - Eight
What bird is the symbol of peace? - Dove
The baby of which animal is called a joey? - Kangaroo
If a blank colored cat crosses your path, it is considered bad lucWhich color? - Black
What is a group of lions called? - A pride
Which bird lays the largest eggs? - Ostrich
Which is the fastest animal? - Cheetah
What does a panda eat? - Bamboo
Which is the only mammal that can fly? - Bat
Which animal is known as the man’s best friend? - A dog
Which is the only land animal that cannot jump? - Elephant
Which is the fastest running bird? - Ostrich
Which is the bird that can fly backward? - Hummingbird
Which is the tallest bird in the world? - Ostrich
Which is the fastest bird? - Falcon
Which is the biggest animal in the entire world? - Blue whale
Which is the slowest animal? - Three-toed sloth
What is the horn of a rhinoceros made of? - Hair
Which animal can lift up to 50 times its body weight? - Ant
Which is the tallest animal? - Giraffe
What is a baby dog called? - A pup
Which is the longest snake? - Reticulated python
How many legs does a lobster have? - Ten
How many eyes does a spider have? - Eight (Some have six or fewer but always an even number)
Which is the largest mammal? - Whale
What is a group of crows called? - A murder
Which animal has three hearts? - Octopus
Which animal lives the longest (or has the longest lifespan)? - Arctic whale
Which animal does not drink water? - Kangaroo rat
Which animal never sleeps? - Bullfrog
What are amphibians? - Animals that live on land and water
How many bones do sharks have? - None
How many bones are there in a giraffe’s neck? - Seven (just like humans)
How many years can a snail sleep for? - Three years
What kind of animal is a Komodo dragon? - A lizard
What is a female sheep called? - Ewe
What is a baby goat called? - A kid
How do bats navigate? - They use echolocation (sound waves for navigating)
Which bird eats only bones? - Bearded vulture
Which is the world’s most poisonous spider? - Brazilian wandering spider
Which is the most venomous snake in the world? - Saw-scaled viper
Which bird’s eye is bigger than its brain? - Ostrich
Which are the two only egg-laying mammals? - Duck-billed platypus and anteater
Which is the smallest reptile? - Leaf chameleon
Which bird flies the highest? - Ruppell’s vulture
Which bird has the biggest wingspan? - Wandering albatross
How many heart chambers does a cockroach have? - Twelve
To which part of an ant’s body is its legs attached? - Its thorax
Are rabbits born blind? - Yes
Do sponges have a heart? - No
What is a female donkey called? - A jenny
Which animal breathes through its skin? - Frog
How long does it take for a sloth to digest its food? - Two weeks
Lemurs are native to which country? - Madagascar
Which was the first animal to be domesticated? - A goat
What do you call a group of fish? - A school
What is a nocturnal animal? - An animal that sleeps during the day and hunts at night
What is the color of a newborn flamingo? - Grey
How do snakes smell? - With their tongues
What does a caterpillar turn into after making a cocoon? - A butterfly
What color is a reindeer’s eyes in winter? - Blue
How many brains does an octopus have? - Nine
Which animal cannot look up? - Pig
How do honey bees taste food? - With their feet
How many glasses of milk does a cow give in its lifetime? - 200,000
Which animal can turn its head 270°? - An owl
Which animal can move its eyes independently? - Chameleon
Why don’t spiders stick to their webs? - Because they walk on the non-sticky threads
How can you determine the age of a lion? - By seeing its nose
Which animal has the strongest bite? - Hippopotamus
Where do dogs sweat? - The pads of their feet
Which is the national bird of New Zealand? (New Zealanders are often called by this name.) - Kiwi
How many compartments does a cow’s stomach have? - Four
Which is the largest animal in the squirrel family? - Groundhog
Which animal’s name means “water horse?” - Hippopotamus
How does a pufferfish respond to threats? - It puffs itself up like a balloon
Which species of bear has translucent fur? - Polar bear
How many legs does a honey bee have? - Six
What is the color of an ocelot? - Yellow with black markings
Which animal has the highest blood pressure? - Giraffe
What is a baby puffin called? - A puffling
What is a group of giraffes called? - A tower
What are male and female elephants called? - Bull and cow, respectively
Why do rats keep nibbling at things? - Because their teeth keep growing and they keep biting things to ear them off

What is a kakapo? - A parrot that cannot fly
Which animal’s heart is located in its head? - Shrimp
How many noses does a slug have? - Four
Which direction does a bat first turn after exiting a cave? - Left
Which animal doesn’t have vocal cords? - Giraffe
What is a polar bear’s skin color? - Black
What is a group of kittens called? - A kindle
Which is the only big cat that cannot roar? - Cheetah
What is the wingspan of a bald eagle? - Eight feet
Which is the biggest land animal? - Elephant
How are birds able to fly? - Because they have hollow bones
Which animal was worshipped in ancient Egypt? - Cat
Which is the fastest water animal? - Sailfish
Who does most of the hunting in a lion family? - Lioness does 90% of the hunting
Which animal holds hands in the water while asleep? - Otter
What is the color of a reindeer’s eyes in summer? - Gold or brown
Where are the glands of a cow located? - In its nose
Which animal can see all its four legs at once? - A donkey
What kind of animal is a Flemish giant? - A rabbit
Which animal has breeds named Jersey, Texas Longhorn, and Belgian Blue? - Cow
hich bird was first domesticated by man? - A chicken
How many eggs does a hen lay in a year on an average?
ns: 227

How do frogs protect themselves in freezing temperatures? - They freeze themselves solid
How many hours do koala bears sleep in a day? - Up to 22 hours
What is a group of ferrets called? - A business
How do octopi taste? - With their arms
What color is a giraffe’s tongue? - Black
Which animal has the thickest fur? - Otter
What is a group of owls called? - A parliament
Which mammal has the longest tongue? - Giant anteater
How do butterflies taste? - With their feet
How do cockroaches smell? - With their antennae or feelers
Which underwater animal can sing? - Whale
What kind of animal is a mandrill? - A monkey
Which was the oldest panda that died in 2014 at the age of 114? - Jia jia
What is a group of rhinos called? - A crash
What is a baby fox called? - A kit
Which bird is the symbol of good luck? - Stork
What is a group of hedgehogs known as? - A pickle
Which animal’s scientific name is Hominoidea? - Ape
Which animal has breeds like a retriever, Mexican hairless, shepherd, and beagle? - Dog
Which is the only venomous snake found in the UK? - Adder
What is a crossbreed between a horse and a donkey called? - Mule
What is a crossbreed between a zebra and a donkey called? - Zonkey
What is a group of geese called? - A gaggle
What does it mean when a pig’s tail curls? - That they are happy
What is the underside of a horse’s hoof called? - A frog
Which bird cannot move their eyeballs? - Owl
Which bird can mimic human speech? - Parrot
Which sea creature contains pearls? - Oyster
Which animal is the national emblem of America? - Bald eagle
Which animal has breeds like Persian, British shorthair, and Russian blue? - Cat
What color is the blood of an octopus? - Blue
What is a group of flamingos called? - Flamboyance
The bite of which insect causes malaria and dengue? - A mosquito
Which animal has the biggest eyes? - Colossal squid
What do you call a rabbit’s tail? - Scut
Which bird reaches the highest speeds in its hunting dive? - Peregrine falcon
What is a group of deer called? - A herd
Where do you find blind dolphins? - The Indus river
Which is the smallest mammal? - Etruscan shrew
What is a group of young pigs called? - A drift
The fingerprints of which animal resembles human fingerprints quite closely? - Koala bear
Which animal has rectangular pupils? - Goat
What is Scotland’s national animal? - Unicorn
On which continent are chinchillas found? - South America
How many pairs of eyelids does an owl have? - Three
Which is the only snake that builds a nest? - King cobra

How many sides does a triangle have? - Three
How many sides does a circle have? - One
How many sides does a square have? - Four
How many ends does a line have? - Two
How many corners does a circle have? - Zero

What colour usually are the petals on sunflowers? - Yellow 
Which item is usually not green? Emerald, Rice, Frog, Lettuce - Rice 
Which planet is called the Red Planet? - Mars.
What pigment is present in all green plants that give them their color? - Chlorophyll.
What is the color of the letters O and E in the logo of the search engine Google? - Red.
How many squares of alternating colors are there on a chessboard? - 64.
Which hair color is the rarest naturally-occurring in hair? - Red.
Name the term used for describing people with two different colors of eyes. - Heterochromia.
What is the science of color called? - Chromatics or colorimetry.
Which reptile has the ability to change its color? - Chameleon.
What are the primary colors? - Red, blue, green.
Why are the primary colors called primary? - Because they can not be formed by mixing any other colors.
Which primary colors are present in the flag of the United States? - Blue and Red.
What is the first color a baby sees? - Red.
Which color has the highest wavelength in the spectrum? - Red.
What are the two sets of colors that are never seen together by the human eye? - Red  and green, plus blue and yellow.
What is the favorite color of America? - Blue.
What is the color to which mosquitoes are most attracted to? - Blue.
Which two colors stimulate hunger? - Red and yellow.
What is the color we see when we close our eyes? - Eigengrau, or brain gray.
Which two colors are difficult to remember and recall? - Black and White.
Which color is the safest color to prevent road accidents? - White.
What is the name of the color invented which the human eye cannot see? - Vantablack.
What word was used to describe the color orange before the word orange was coined? - Geoluhread.
What is the fear of colors called? - Chromophobia.
What color is used in the logo of the popular kid's channel Nickelodeon? - Orange.
Name the seven colors present in the rainbow. - VIBGYOR (violet, indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange, red).
Name the scientist who explained the occurrence of the rainbow. - Isaac Newton.
What is the angle of the rainbow, when stood in the opposite direction of the sun? - 42 degrees.
The lower the sun is, the higher the rainbow is in the sky. True or False? - True.
What is the Latin term for 'rainbow', from which the word is derived? - Arcus Pluvius.
What do you call a bow formed by cloud and fog droplets? - Fogbow.
In which US state is the maximum number of rainbows formed? - Hawaii.
A rainbow is tangible. True or False. - False.
How many colors are present in the color wheel? - Six.
What is the opposite of blue on the color wheel? - Orange.
How many colors are used to form a tertiary color? - Three.
What colors would you mix to give purple? - Red and blue.
What are the colors located near to each other called? - Analogous colors.
What form of communication is color? - Non-verbal form of communication.
What are the earth tones in a color wheel called? - Neutral colors.
What would you call an image that has one color? - Monochrome.
Name the substance present in carrots that gives them the orange pigment. - Carotene.
What is the color of the dye produced from the woad plant? - Blue.
What color does saffron produce? - Yellow.
What is the color of the stripes on a newly born zebra? - Brown.
What is the color of the eggs laid by emus? - Green.
What is the color of the skin of a polar bear? - Black.
What is the color of the blood of insects? - Green or yellow.
Goldfish lose their yellow-orange color if they are kept in a low light environment. True or False? - True.
Which chemical element gives turquoise its blue color? - Copper.
Which component in human blood produces its red color? - Haemoglobin.
Name the colors present in the Swiss flag. - Red and white.
Which plant provides the primary component of inks for colored newspaper? - Soybean.
Name the country where you would find the yellow river. - China.
What element is responsible for the red color of Mars? - Iron.
Why is the sky blue? - Blue light is reflected.
Why do specific hens lay brown color eggs and others lay white eggs? - Hen genetics.
What is the most commonly occurring color of human eyes? - Brown.
What is the color of zero on Russian Roulette? - Green.
Which sea is the smallest sea by surface area? - White Sea.
What color is formed when the 3 primary colors are combined? - White.
Name the famous painting by the artist Thomas Gainsborough. - The Blue Boy.
What is the color formed in the absence of colors? - Black.
Which color is the favorite color for most people across the world? - Blue.
What does CMYK stand for? - Cyan, Magenta, Yellow, Kohle (Black).
Which city is called the Pink City? - Jaipur.
Which was the first movie to be converted to color electronically? - 'Yankee Doodle Dandy'.
Who is the author of the book 'Anne of the Green Gables'? - L.M. Montgomery.
Which country has a golden yellow color star in the center on a red background and was designed in 1940? - Vietnam.
In which country did 'The Orange Revolution' take place? - Ukraine.
What color were stop signs before 1960? - Yellow.
What were the four colors during the renaissance? - Red, blue, yellow, and green.
Who invented the color wheel? - Sir Isaac Newton.
Which animal can see the widest range of colors? - Mantis Shrimp.
Which cells of the human eye are sensitive to colors? - Cones.
Which material in amethyst stones are responsible for giving its violet color? - Manganese.
Dogs can see only two colors. Name them. - Blue-violet, and yellow.
Name the gas that gives Neptune its blue colour. - Methane.
